// Artificial Intelligence //



	Artificial Intelligence: the subdiscipline of computing. AI differs from the human brain
	in many ways such as reasoning, awareness, and emotions. AI is the study of computer systems
	that attempt to model and apply the intelligence of the human mind.


	The turing test:
			Alan turing in 1950: english mathmetician, Turing Test is used to answer
	the quesiton "how will we know when computers can think for themselves?", well Turing Test
	is the answer to that question. Turing test is used to empirically determine whether a 
	computer has achieved intelligence. Basically the test is based on whether a computer could
	fool a human into believing that the computer is another human. A computer that passes this
	test is considered a weak equivalence, but do not arrive at those results in the same way.
	Strong equivalence means that two systems use the same internal process to produce results.
	This goes hand and hand with the Loebner prize.

	A Semantic Network is a knowledge repersentation technique that focuses on the relationships
	between objects. Some AI systems use a depth-first approach analyzing selective paths all the
	way down the tree, some use a breadth-first approach which analyzes all possible paths but only
	for a short distance down the tree.

	Expert Systems:
			A knowledge-based system is a software system that embodies and uses a specific
	set of information fro which it extracts and processes particular pieces. Expert systems and 
	knowledge-based systems are used interchangably, though expert systems usually embody the knowledge
	of a specialized field, modeling the expertise of a professional in that field. An expert system
	uses a set of rules to guide it's processing, called rule-based system, the set of rules referred
	to is called it's knowledge-base, the inference engine is the part of the software that determines
	how the rules are followed, expert systems use boolean variables to repersent(the creator: defines
	a few variables:called rules, then through determination the boolean variables are implemented, after
	determination process: rules take the form of if-then).


		Neutral Networks:
				Artificial neural network in a computer attempts to mimic the actions of the
		neural networks of the human body.

			Biological Neural Networks:
						A neuron is a single cell that conducts a chemically-based electronic
			signal. And the human brain contains billions of neurons connected into a network. to which
			each neuron is either in an excited or inhibited state, an excited neuron conducts a strong
			signal and an inhibited neuron conducts a weak signal, a series of connected neurons form a
			pathway. The signal along a particualr path is either stregthened or weakened according to the
			state of the neurons it passes through(excited neurons=strong, inhibited neurons=weak). A biological
			neuron has multiple input tentacles called dendrites and one primary output tentacle called an AXON.
			the dendrites of one neuron pick up the signals from AXONS of other neurons to form  the neural network.
			The gap between an AXON and a dendrite is called a synapse. 
	
			Artificial Neural Networks:
						Each processing element in an artificial neural net is analogous to a biological
			neuron. An element accepts a certain number of input values and produces a single output valie of either
//			1 or 0. Each element has a threshold value: exceeding the threshold yeilds/produces a 1, if it does not 		//
			exceed the threshold it yeilds/produces a 0, if an input signal value is 0, it's weight is irrelevant, if
			the input value is 1, the magnitudeof the weight(and whether it is positive or negative) greatly affects the
			effective weight(going forward determine the value[without knowing the previous value]). The process of adjusting
			the weights and threshold values in a neural net is called training(a neural net can be trained to produce any results).
			A neural net is often set up with random weights . threshold values, and intial inputs. Consider a cat photo, and suppose
			a neural net is used to address this problem, using 1 output value per pixel. Our goal is to produce an output value of 1
			for every pixel that contributes to the image of the cat, and to produce a 0 if it does not. There is no inherent meaning 
			in the weights, and threshold values of the neural net. Their meaning comes from the interpretation we apply to them. So,
			obvious question is, while we are waiting for the weights, and threshold values are we at a logical 0 or starting with 1,
			or 0, 0?

		
			