// Simulation, complex models //
12/20/2025 Ivan Sutherland for Sketchpad(1960s):A Man-machine Graphical Communications System, Lightpen.
12/27/2025 Albert Einstien Special Relativity 1905
12/27/2025 JP Morgan[Nicola Tesla[Warden Cliff Tower]]

	Notes:
		A simulation is the technique of using a model to repersent phenomena, objects, or situations.
		A simulation is used as a tool to repersent a development of a model of a complex system and 
		the experimental manipulation of the model to observe the results which started in the mid
		1950's.


		Complex systems: dynamic, interactive, and complicated systems being used as simulation,
		dynamic systems vary over time(statistics, mathematically equation repersentation). 
		
		Models: There are two dictionary definitions that relate 
		to the use of the word simulation, 1) an analogy that can be used to help visualize something
		that cannot be directly observed, 2) and a set of postulates, data, and inferences presented
		as a mathematical decription of an entity or state of affairs both repersenting the abstraction
		of something else.(For example a simulation is an example model an abstraction of a real system,
		not the system itself.) Usually the way time is repersented : either repersented as a continuous
		variable, or as a descrete variable is the difference between modeling or simulating a build or 
		characteristics and features. 
		Parteto's law: Approx 80% of the behavior can be explained by 20% of the components, 
			Models (Simulation)
				Continuous simulation	components: ex: wind, vapor, cloud formation, temp, ect.
				Discrete event simulation	entities(object classes, resource), 
									attributes(properies of a class), 
										and events(responsibilities of the entity).
										events==rule defining/experiementing process\queuing

											note: queuing models are based on cprobability, and
												a simulation is a technique for trying out "what if"
												questions., models include:(FIFO, priority queue).

				Meterological Models(MOS)	time-dependent, partial differential equations
								components: ex: vertical velocity, temp, pressure, and water vapor concentration.
									initial values(for variables entered from observation, then solved in order to define values 											of the variables at some later time)
									re-integration(using the predicted values from the last integration as the observed values 											for the current integration continues[giving the predictions over time]
									predictions describe rate of change of entities in the model, 


											note: MOS(model output statistics), NGM(nested grid model), 
												radiosondes(measure wind velocity), 
												rawinsondes(measure satelites, aircraft, and other remote sensing 												sources).
												GFDL(geographical fluid dynamics laboratory) opened in 1995 uses 												relocatable modules for hurricane tracking, seismic models(waves
												through the earths medium, provide geologists three demensional 												mapping data of oil, gas reservouirs)
  		
			Embedded Systems:
					specialized singular logic implemented as a single program, utilizing a mutual chip, 8-bit microprocessors, these range 
					from 8-bit to 32-bit(DSP's-digital signal processors) to 64-bit(RISC-reduced instruciton set)chips. Many embedded systems 
					are based on networks of distributed busses, remotely monitored and controlled by regular network management communication 
					protocols. The term embedded system is nebulous because it encompasses everything that is preprogrammed to perform, dedicated or 					narrow range of functions as part of a larger system, with minimal user intervention. Programs must be written and burned into the 
					ROM to accomplish its assigned functions.  

				NOTE: (EIM- employee internet monitoring)